# Introduction

<p> Surveys, questionnaires, and focus groups have long been the standard research methods for analyzing public opinion in the social sciences, government, and business. Commercial social media analytics software and the data mining it allows have become standard in industry, particularly in marketing (Fan and Gordon, 2014). Understandably, there is also a drive within academia to generate new effective methodologies to mine the social web. This is because in recent years, online social media like Facebook, YouTube, Twitter, and Tumblr have made space for millions of users to share opinion and information with each other instantly and in less controlled (which poses both limitations of imprecision and advantages of uninfluenced spontaneity in expressing an opinion) environment. With the rapidly increasing popularity, these sites have become a source of massive amount of real time data of videos, images, comments, opinions, Tweets, etc. </p>
<p> Among these social media sites, YouTube is the largest video sharing platform, where users, comprised of private companies, persons, research institutes, and news channels upload videos continuously. It has created a unique environment which is multi-cultural, multi-lingual, inter-generational, spontaneous, and where users constitute an online community depending on the content they produce and consume: gaming, cooking shows, beauty-related, true crime and comedy, news commentary, book reviews, etc. The versatility of shared content and variety makes YouTube an increasingly important resource for the research community. Users engage with the site to express their opinion by rating the viewed videos (by clicking on the like/dislike buttons) and interacting with the other community members (via the comments feature). However, the characteristics that make YouTube an appealing object of analysis also make it an elusive one: the constant churn in content driven by shifting consumer interests and intent makes it huge and complex, simultaneously “a high-volume website, a broadcast platform, a media archive, and a social network” (Burgess and Green, 2010: 5). </p>
<p> YouTube thus represents the new participatory media characteristic of Web 2.0. As such, it potentially has a civic role to play as a cultural public sphere. However, as all internet sites, YouTube is also populated by ‘trolls’ or ‘haters’, negative and often personally offensive commenters, whole goal is to lead to the outbreaks of flame wars and lead discussants in fruitless debate going around in circles. </p>

### <b> <i> <br> <font size="5"> Research question </font> </i> </b> 
<p> The present project is based upon these observations about new methods of social science research, the participatory nature of new media, and the vitriol these new media inspire in their users. This study thus proposes to analyse comments from YouTube users on the 100 most popular (meaning most viewed) gender pay gap videos as a basis for analysing the degree of hostility towards the concept of the gender pay gap on YouTube and looking at what kind of discourses come up repeatedly in relation to the discussion of gender pay gap, using topic modelling, various semantic network mapping and user network analysis. </p>
<p> Research shows that at least a portion of the gap between male and female earnings exists due to gender discrimination. Yet attempts to rationalise this gap have also produced a significant debate over the degree to which it is gendered, fair or unfair, stemming from biological differences between men and women, and whether it should be rectified by legislation or quotas (REFERENCES). Social media is known as both a mechanism for feminist activism but also a forum where those hostile towards feminist ideas can actively create anti-feminist content or critique feminist views of other users in derogatory fashion.</p>
<p> As such, gender pay gap videos on YouTube are a microcosm of the dynamics described above: user-generated content mixed with research institutes, traditional (corporate and public) media, personal accounts and news channels producing content about a specific issue, inviting users to debate, like/dislike, comment and reply, while the subject matter of the videos is ‘polarizing’ in the climate of anti-feminist hostility online. The next section outlies our methodology regarding the collection, classification, and analysis of YouTube videos and comments. We then proceed to presenting the results, discussing them, and outlining the limitations of the study that became apparent in the process as well as assessing avenues for future research and viability of digital research methods for online ‘public’ spaces. </p>

